Many of us are concerned about how to care well for aging parents, not only because of
what it says in the quoted portion of today's text, but also because of the phrase at the
end of 1 Timothy chapter 5 and verse 4. If you tap the citation at the end of today's
text, you get the rest of the verse, namely, for this is acceptable in God's sight. And
that tells us just how important a matter this is. Notice the interlinear rendering. The
term translated God, the devotion is literally to be revering well, which could denote being
generally virtuous toward anyone. And perhaps that's why a number of translations in our
list here in J.W. Library simply say to show piety. Still others, such as the Jerusalem
Bible, render the term to do their duty. But honoring our parents is more than just our
duty toward humans. It's more than just virtue for its own sake. The verse itself says this
is acceptable in God's sight. So we love our parents, yes, they deserve our care, yes.
That's virtuous, of course. But principally, we care for our aging parents because we
revered Jehovah. We care about what Jehovah says is right conduct toward family members.
It's a matter of godly devotion. So what are some of the factors to keep in mind? Our commoners
have helped us so much. The comments point out that exactly how children provide care varies
because situations vary. But here's four practical things we can do. First, communicate. Second,
determine the real needs. Third, have reasonable expectations. And fourth, always remember to
throw your burden on Jehovah. First turn please to Proverbs chapter 15 and verse 22. Communicate,
communicate, communicate. And what is this result in? It says, plans fail when there is no
consultation. But there is accomplishment through many advisors. So keep in touch, call,
write, email, text, Skype. Once a week, more often, especially as they age, satisfy their spiritual
needs. Keep them apprised of what's going on at Bethel and the rich treasures you enjoy here
in your service. Care for their emotional needs by reminding them just how valuable they are.
But regarding their material needs, it's important to ask the right questions. It's easy to
conclude they're doing okay. But this is where the many advisors come in. Keep in touch with
other family members, the local congregation, get the whole story through the sheer multiplicity
of counselors doesn't in itself guarantee accurate data. A majority can be wrong. That's why Exodus 23,
two cautions us against just going along with the crowd. However, when we're trying to make important
decisions, we need to get a clear picture of what's actually going on in their lives. And that
leads to our second point, determine the real needs. Notice what it says here in Proverbs 14 and
verse 15. Some parents have made wise provision for their old age pensions, insurance, retirement
funds. But what if these run out? Then what? Time to quit? Get a house? It's good that we honor
our parents. And never would we want to treat them with contempt. That's exactly what Jesus condemned.
And yet in some cases, we have to think about what it says in Proverbs 14 and verse 15. Notice what
it says at the end. The shrewd one ponders each step. Family happiness. Page 176 raises 11 pertinent
questions. It says, suppose your elderly mother is having difficulty living alone and you think
she might benefit from moving in with you, you might consider what her actual needs. Are there
private or state-sponsored support services that offer an acceptable alternative solution? Does she
want to move? If she does, in what ways will her life be affected? Will she have to leave friends
behind? How might this affect her emotionally? Have you talked to these things over with her?
How might such a move affect you? You're made. If your mother needs care, who will provide it? Can
the responsibility be shared? Have you discussed the matter with all those directly involved?
In one of the most touching accounts on this subject, John, chapter 19 verses 26 and 27,
we read that Jesus, when he saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said
to his mother, woman, see your son. Next, he said to the disciple, see your mother and from that
hour on, the disciple took her into his own home. Yes, despite all that was weighing on Jesus'
shoulders at that precise moment, not to mention the incredible pain he was enduring. He took the
time to take care of his mother. But what did he do? Did he summon 12 legions of angels and postpone
his execution? No, he delegated responsibility to a relative and not his brothers because they
apparently were not yet believers. What an amazing example of balancing the real needs of all
concerned. Well, that brings us to our third point, have reasonable expectations of our parents,
of our relatives, of the congregation. First Corinthians 16 and 14 says, let everything you do
be done with love. Beautiful text. Now, the responsibility rests primarily upon each Christian
to care for his own household, children, grandchildren, other close relatives, display Christian love
by providing assistance to the elderly and infirm ones, according to their needs. But congregations
of Jehovah's Witnesses do not weaken this personal responsibility by taking over. The Bethel family
is really to be commended for the variety of ways in which you're shouldering this very heavy
responsibility. How this must please Jehovah. And that leads to our final point.
Remember to throw your burdens on Jehovah. As pointed out in our comments, Jehovah can bless any
scriptural decision and make it work. How encouraging those words are. And then it cites numbers
11, 23. The hand of Jehovah is not short. Only our lack of trust in Jehovah would limit
what he will do for us. And although Jehovah can work miracles, we don't expect that we will never
have to participate in the solution of giving care to our aging parents. Why not? Because by learning
to practice godly devotion in our own households, we have the opportunity to show the depth
of our unselfish motives in serving Jehovah. And that proves the devil a liar.
Nevertheless, notice this encouraging promise at Psalm 145 verse 18.
Jehovah is near to all those calling on him, to all who call on him in truth. He satisfies the
desire of those who fear him. He hears their cry for help and he rescues them. Jehovah helps.
Maybe you yourself are the instrument in Jehovah's hands to make sure that your parents are
well cared for. Your work may actually be the expression of Jehovah's love and answer to your
parents prayers.